#summary Mapping Guide
#labels Level-Design

= Introduction =

Zinger maps should be simple and maintain the cartoon feel of the gamemode. Over complicated brushes and textures will only drown out the comical feel and appear out of place. The developers specifically designed the theme to allow for quick and easy mapping; focusing mainly on gameplay and less on brush details.


= Terminology =

  * An entire map is considered a [course].
  * Each [course] is broken up into [hole holes].
  * Players start at the [tee].
  * At the end of the [hole] there is a [cup].


= Best Practices =

There are some easy guidelines to follow that will help ensure your map retains the intended theme of the game:
  * Use simple shapes throughout the map, there is no need for complex structures.
  * Use exaggerated angles. Don't leave a cube perfectly square. Skew it.
  * Reuse the included textures as much as possible to help players easily recognize what portions are the play area and what is out of bounds.
  * Each hole should be contained in its own skybox.
  * Holes should be linear with a well defined path from start to finish.
  * The playable area should allow players the ability to bounce around yet have enough hazards to keep it challenging.
  * Holes should accommodate at least 8 to 10 players.
  * The use of bottlenecks is encouraged to allow for strategy and cooperative play.
  * Both tees should start at approximately the same area and neither team should have an advantage over the other
  * Avoid gentle slopes at all costs. They force the balls to roll at relatively low speeds and unnecessarily extend a players wait time.